---
title: "Intro"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
---

### *whoa, hey an open-source*
{: .text-purple}

<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-bicycle fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>

# single-page jekyll theme
{: .text-purple}

### Panama Paradise: Analysis of Tax Heaven by Country

The Panama Papers are an unprecedented leak of 11.5 million documents from the database of the world’s fourth biggest offshore law firm, Mossack Fonseca. It presents financial and attorney-client information for more than 214,488 offshore entities. The documents contain personal financial information about wealthy individuals and public officials that had previously been kept private. While offshore business entities are legal (see Offshore Magic Circle), reporters found that some of the Mossack Fonseca shell corporations were used for illegal purposes, including fraud, tax evasion, and evading international sanctions according to ICIJ reporters, for example:

* Uruguay has arrested five people and charged them with money-laundering through Mossack Fonseca shell companies for a Mexican drug cartel.
* Ouestaf, an ICIJ partner in the investigation, reported that it had discovered new evidence that Karim Wade received payments from DP World (DP). He and a long-time friend were convicted of this in a trial that the United Nations and Amnesty International said was unfair and violated the defendants' rights. The Ouestaf article does not address the conduct of the trial, but does say that Ouestaf journalists found Mossack Fonseca documents showing payments to Wade via a DP subsidiary and a shell company registered to the friend.
* Swiss lawyer Dieter Neupert has been accused of mishandling client funds and helping both oligarchs and the Qatari royal family to hide money.
* Named in the leak were 12 current or former world leaders, 128 other public officials and politicians, and hundreds of celebrities, businessmen and other wealthy individuals of over 200 countries.

Pay attention that most of the activities are legally allowed alothough ethically questionable, and consider that the customer needs only to interact online with the desired company, perhaps adding some optional extras such as a bank account, an offshore credit card, mail-forwarding or letterhead, and then heads to the checkout for a total of $560 to buy a company in the Seychelles, with no local taxation, no public disclosure of directors or shareholders and no requirement to file accounts, it is not surprising that there is also a big number of private citizens involved. 